# AA_ecng3006_group_project
System Overview
This project aims to design and implement a pulse oximetry measurement device that, measures and logs the pulse rate and SpO2 levels of preschool children in home environments for 30 seconds during a wheezing episode, as well as 10 minutes after administering medication. To achieve this, the system would measure how much light is absorbed through the child's finger via a sensor which would then send the readings to the ESP8266 microcontroller to be processed. After processing, the SpO2 and pulse rate readings would then be output via the device's display where these results would be logged and can be exported wirelessly. However, a detailed overview of how exactly the system would operate to measure pulse rate and SpO2 levels are provided below:

Pulse Rate - each heartbeat sends a pulse of blood through the arteries (arterioles) causing it to expand and the volume of blood in that area determines the amount of light absorbed by the blood from the sensor (greater volume of blood = greater light absorption and smaller volume of blood = less light absorbed). These pulse variations produce PPG waveforms where peaks indicate lower blood volumes and valleys indicate higher blood volumes, and each pulse corresponds to one heartbeat. The ESP8266 microcontroller would then process and calculate the pulse rate by measuring the time between each peak, which would be displayed as the pulse rate reading.

SpO2 - oxygenated and deoxygenated blood from each pulse are absorbed differently by the red and IR light from the sensor (more red and less IR light is absorbed by deoxygenated blood whereas less red and more IR light is absorbed by oxygenated blood). The device then calculates the SpO2 percentage by comparing the ratio of red to IR light absorption and looking it up in a calibration curve, which would then be displayed as the SpO2 reading.
